README.md, before:

# Driveshaft - Gearman Worker Manager

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/keyurdg/driveshaft.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/keyurdg/driveshaft)

# Getting Started

# Install
## Dependencies
* cmake 2.8.7 or later
* libgearman(-devel)
* log4cxx(-devel)
* libcurl(-devel)
* boost(-devel) 1.48 or later
* gcc 4.8 or later
* prometheus-cpp 0.9.0 or later

## Build
```
$ cmake .
$ make
```

## Install
```
$ sudo make install
```

# Configuration
driveshaft takes two arguments:
```
$ driveshaft
Allowed options:
  --help                    produce help message
  --user arg                username to run as (OPTIONAL)
  --pid_file arg            file to write process ID out to (OPTIONAL)
  --daemonize               Daemon, detach and run in the background (OPTIONAL)
  --jobsconfig arg          jobs config file path
  --logconfig arg           log config file path
  --max_running_time arg    how long can a job run before it is considered failed
                            (in seconds)
  --loop_timeout arg        how long to wait for a response from gearmand before
                            restarting event-loop (in seconds)
  --status_port arg         port to listen on to return status
```

## jobsconfig
A simple jobsconfig file looks like this:
```json
{
    "gearman_servers_list":
    [
        "localhost"
    ],
    "pools_list":
    {
        "ShopStats":
        {
            "job_processing_uri": "http://localhost/job.php",
            "worker_count": 0,
            "jobs_list":
            [
                "ShopStats"
            ]
        },
        "Newsfeed":
        {
            "job_processing_uri": "http://localhost/job.php",
            "worker_count": 0,
            "jobs_list":
            [
                "Newsfeed"
            ]
        },
        "Regular":
        {
            "job_processing_uri": "http://localhost/job.php",
            "worker_count": 0,
            "jobs_list":
            [
                "Sum3",
                "Sum",
                "Sum2"
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

### Jobs Config Options
* `gearman_servers_list` - addresses of gearmand servers
* `pools list` - a list of named pools and corresponding configuration for every pool:
    * `worker_count` - Number of workers to reserve for jobs in this pool
    * `jobs_list` - Names of jobs that should be ran on the workers in this pool
    * `job_processing_uri` - the uri to send the job payload to for execution

## logconfig
An [example log config is
included](https://github.com/keyurdg/driveshaft/blob/master/logconfig.xml) in
the repository. For more information, see
[the log4cxx documentation](https://logging.apache.org/log4cxx/usage.html).

## loop timeout
Expressed in seconds, this is how long to wait for a job from gearmand before restarting
the event loop. It is passed in to `gearman_worker_set_timeout`. This also influences the
shutdown wait durations (hard shutdown is 2x, and graceful is 4x this value).

## status port
The server listens on `status_port` and currently supports the command `threads`.
For every running thread, the server returns back text formatted as
`<Thread-ID>\t<Pool-Name>\t<Shutdown-Flag>\tjob_handle=<Job-Handle> job_unique=<Job-Unique>\r\n`

# Design
1. Jobs are grouped into pools and every pool has a `worker_count` setting in order
to define the maximum concurrency.
2. For every pool, it registers the jobs in `jobs_list` with gearmand and maintains
`worker_count` threads with persistent connections to fetch jobs and submit back
results.
3. When the config changes, it signals the appropriate pool threads to die. Any
currently running job on that thread has a `max_running_time` seconds window to
finish, otherwise the job is considered failed, gearmand is updated and the thread
is closed. Note that the job may keep on running on the HTTP endpoint. New pool
threads are created as needed to match the configuration.
4. Jobs are run via the HTTP endpoint `job_processing_uri` defined in the config. The endpoint
will receive the class name and all the args and will have to do the right thing and
return SUCCESS/FAILURE along with any response text. The thread that is
processing the job blocks waiting for a response.

By reusing connections and not re-registering with gearmand on every job completion,
Driveshaft saves gearmand a lot of work that impacts enqueue latency.

And by using an HTTP endpoint to actually do the heavy lifting, we get the
benefits of a clean-sandbox and Opcache (and can even use HHVM!).

## Endpoint Request Format

Driveshaft will send the job name and arguments via a POST request. Example:
```
{
    "function_name": "Sum",
    "job_handle": "H:localhost:6",
    "unique": "57a7b604-659a-11e5-9442-04013e647701",
    "workload": "[1,2]"
}
```

## Endpoint Response Format

The endpoint should respond with a JSON payload in the body of the document.
Success is indicated by returning zero for `gearman_ret`. The response string
must be a string. Non-strings will not be accepted. Example:
```
{
    "gearman_ret": 0,
    "response_string" => "3"
}
```

# Contribute
See the [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/keyurdg/driveshaft/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)

Commit message:

Update the README.md to document the exported prometheus metrics

README.md, after:

# Driveshaft - Gearman Worker Manager

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/keyurdg/driveshaft.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/keyurdg/driveshaft)

# Getting Started

# Install
## Dependencies
* cmake 2.8.7 or later
* libgearman(-devel)
* log4cxx(-devel)
* libcurl(-devel)
* boost(-devel) 1.48 or later
* gcc 4.8 or later
* prometheus-cpp 0.9.0 or later

## Build
```
$ cmake .
$ make
```

## Install
```
$ sudo make install
```

# Configuration
driveshaft takes two arguments:
```
$ driveshaft
Allowed options:
  --help                    produce help message
  --user arg                username to run as (OPTIONAL)
  --pid_file arg            file to write process ID out to (OPTIONAL)
  --daemonize               Daemon, detach and run in the background (OPTIONAL)
  --jobsconfig arg          jobs config file path
  --logconfig arg           log config file path
  --max_running_time arg    how long can a job run before it is considered failed
                            (in seconds)
  --loop_timeout arg        how long to wait for a response from gearmand before
                            restarting event-loop (in seconds)
  --status_port arg         port to listen on to return status
```

## jobsconfig
A simple jobsconfig file looks like this:
```json
{
    "gearman_servers_list":
    [
        "localhost"
    ],
    "pools_list":
    {
        "ShopStats":
        {
            "job_processing_uri": "http://localhost/job.php",
            "worker_count": 0,
            "jobs_list":
            [
                "ShopStats"
            ]
        },
        "Newsfeed":
        {
            "job_processing_uri": "http://localhost/job.php",
            "worker_count": 0,
            "jobs_list":
            [
                "Newsfeed"
            ]
        },
        "Regular":
        {
            "job_processing_uri": "http://localhost/job.php",
            "worker_count": 0,
            "jobs_list":
            [
                "Sum3",
                "Sum",
                "Sum2"
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

### Jobs Config Options
* `gearman_servers_list` - addresses of gearmand servers
* `pools list` - a list of named pools and corresponding configuration for every pool:
    * `worker_count` - Number of workers to reserve for jobs in this pool
    * `jobs_list` - Names of jobs that should be ran on the workers in this pool
    * `job_processing_uri` - the uri to send the job payload to for execution

## logconfig
An [example log config is
included](https://github.com/keyurdg/driveshaft/blob/master/logconfig.xml) in
the repository. For more information, see
[the log4cxx documentation](https://logging.apache.org/log4cxx/usage.html).

## loop timeout
Expressed in seconds, this is how long to wait for a job from gearmand before restarting
the event loop. It is passed in to `gearman_worker_set_timeout`. This also influences the
shutdown wait durations (hard shutdown is 2x, and graceful is 4x this value).

## metrics
The server runs a prometheus exporter interface over http at the address and port specified by the `exporter_addr` command line option. The following metrics are exposed:
1. histogram `driveshaft_job_duration`: labelled by `pool` and `function`.  Aggregates the duration of successful jobs.
2. counter `driveshaft_http_errors`: labelled by `pool`, `function` and `http_status`
3. counter `driveshaft_timeouts`: labelled by `pool` and `function`
4. counter `driveshaft_errors`: labelled by `pool` and `function`, includes errors also counted in `driveshaft_http_errors` and `driveshaft_timeouts` as well as any other errors.
5. counter `driveshaft_threads`: labelled by `status` = `{idle, busy}`, `pool` and `function`.  Idle threads do not include the `function` label.

# Design
1. Jobs are grouped into pools and every pool has a `worker_count` setting in order
to define the maximum concurrency.
2. For every pool, it registers the jobs in `jobs_list` with gearmand and maintains
`worker_count` threads with persistent connections to fetch jobs and submit back
results.
3. When the config changes, it signals the appropriate pool threads to die. Any
currently running job on that thread has a `max_running_time` seconds window to
finish, otherwise the job is considered failed, gearmand is updated and the thread
is closed. Note that the job may keep on running on the HTTP endpoint. New pool
threads are created as needed to match the configuration.
4. Jobs are run via the HTTP endpoint `job_processing_uri` defined in the config. The endpoint
will receive the class name and all the args and will have to do the right thing and
return SUCCESS/FAILURE along with any response text. The thread that is
processing the job blocks waiting for a response.

By reusing connections and not re-registering with gearmand on every job completion,
Driveshaft saves gearmand a lot of work that impacts enqueue latency.

And by using an HTTP endpoint to actually do the heavy lifting, we get the
benefits of a clean-sandbox and Opcache (and can even use HHVM!).

## Endpoint Request Format

Driveshaft will send the job name and arguments via a POST request. Example:
```
{
    "function_name": "Sum",
    "job_handle": "H:localhost:6",
    "unique": "57a7b604-659a-11e5-9442-04013e647701",
    "workload": "[1,2]"
}
```

## Endpoint Response Format

The endpoint should respond with a JSON payload in the body of the document.
Success is indicated by returning zero for `gearman_ret`. The response string
must be a string. Non-strings will not be accepted. Example:
```
{
    "gearman_ret": 0,
    "response_string" => "3"
}
```

# Contribute
See the [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/keyurdg/driveshaft/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md)
